- [Instructor] Enough of this in-memory demo database stuff.
Let's use a true data store that persist data
after the application ends.
Since creating your first Spring Boot microservice
with JPA until now,
H2 was our data store
and it's good for demos or setting up a test bench,
but that's not how applications are in the real world.
You may be thinking,
"Ugh great, to follow along, I need to download and install
"and configure MySQL which will clutter my PC."
I could have taken this approach,
but I thought I would instead incorporate a product
that's become wildly popular in software development
and continuous integration and continuous delivery
and that's Docker.
Docker is used to build, deploy and run containers
for software applications
and it's simply an application delivery technology.
In order to keep up with this course,
I assume you are a Java developer.
The goal of Java is to write once, run anywhere.
You don't have to take Java source code written on a Mac
and recompile it to run on a PC.
You take bytecode.
It could be in the form of .class files,
.jar files, .war or .ear files.
But as long as the Java virtual machine is installed,
the applications will run,
but applications aren't normally standalone.
Infrastructures such as databases,
messaging technology, platform-specific configurations,
standalone UI deployments that include Node,
must all play together nicely
before an application is truly usable.
Docker is used to manage
all the interdependencies of the infrastructure
and gather them together in one or more images,
similar to a Java .jar file.
And then Docker is the platform on which the image is run.
A running image is known as a container.
So, the goal of this chapter is to accomplish the following.
We'll need to install Docker.
Install the MySQL Docker image.
Run the MySQL Docker container.
And then have the Explorecali application
integrate with that MySQL container.
This is not a course on Docker.
There are plenty of courses in the LinkedIn Learning library
which will dig much deeper into the platform,
but I'm gonna guide you through
in a cookbook-type approach for certain usage scenarios.
It's okay if you don't understand at first
and it might just seem like magic,
but be patient and maybe you would jump
on the Docker bandwagon as well.